(Very early draft. Please comment.)

Overall vision: A Thriving Fediverse.

This means, among others:

* many apps of high quality and with broad and diverse feature sets from many developers
  are easily available to users;

* these apps richly and reliably interoperate with each other;

* thereby forming the federated Fediverse network, which aims to deliver at least as good
  and valuable user experiences as today's centralized services, even as users choose
  different apps to interact with each other;

* created and maintained by an ever-growing community of developers world-wide;

* who can quickly and reliably deliver these interoperable apps to users.

(Note: this list is focused on developers, mostly to avoid "feature creep" for the purposes
of this list. Obviously a thriving fediverse means many other important things, in particular
to users -- like not being manipulated or tracked against their will -- but not in this
list to maintain focus in our developer-focused specific discussion.)

--------

The Fediverse Developer Network supports this vision by working towards the following
objectives:

(objective 1) providing documentation, code samples, developer tools and the like to
    enable new and established Fediverse developers to deliver apps that interoperate
    with already-existing apps confidently, and as quickly and reliably as possible;

(objective 2) hosting communications & collaboration infrastructure (e.g. discussion groups,
    online meetings, bug trackers, repos for test cases etc) that enables developers
    to learn from each other and solve problems (such as interop problems or cross-app
    usability problems) together.

(objective 3) collecting interoperability use cases currently not addressed well by
    existing implementations, and providing a forum where interested parties can collaborate
    on attempting to address them in a way that ultimately can benefit the entire
    Fediverse.

--------

Specifically, in the shorter and medium-term future, we will:

(work stream 1) Set up and maintain a single, authoritative destination website from where
    new developers can easily find all information and tools they need for (objective 1)
    to the extent they exist;

(work stream 2) Perform a gap analysis between what is readily available from (work stream 1)
    and what should be available to meet (objective 1) well. (e.g. test suite; hello
    world sample code, ....) Formulate a plan how to close identified gaps.

(work stream 3) Continue to maintain existing online discussions groups, which already
    support (objective 2). Integrate them into the authoritative destination website
    so developers will easily and confidently use the right group at the right time.

(work stream 4) Find a way to periodically conduct and sustain live on-line meetings for
    networking and learning between developers, to support (objective 2).

(work stream 5) Find a way to host forward-looking discussions that go beyond
    established protocols and conventions that inform future protocol work, without
    confusing new developers or taking the risk of the Fediverse being "Osborned",
    to support (objective 3). This may include prototyping, the development and
    documentation of new or extension of existing protocols.


We will not:

* perform any standards work; instead, we will provide feedback or proposals to
  existing standards organizations and work with them as needed.

